docs/sessions_all/sessions_all.rst, before:

================
Compute Sessions
================

The most visited pages in the Backend.AI GUI Console would be the Sessions and
Data & Storage pages. Here, you will learn how to query and
create container-based compute sessions and utilize various web applications on
the Sessions page.

Start a new session
-------------------

After logging in with a user account, click Sessions on the left menu to visit the Sessions page. 
Sessions page lets you start new sessions or use and manage existing running sessions. 

.. image:: sessions_page.png

Click the START button to start a new compute session. The following setup
dialog will appear. You can specify the language environment (Environments and
Version) and the amount of resources you want to allocate. Set the CPU and memory as shown in
the following figure and click the LAUNCH button.

.. image:: session_launch_dialog.png
   :width: 350
   :align: center

If you need more detailed settings, refer to the meaning of each items.

* Environments: Specify the default environment for compute sessions such as
  TensorFlow, PyTorch, C++, etc. When you select a TensorFlow environment,
  your compute session will automatically include the TensorFlow library.
  If you select another environment, the corresponding environment is installed
  by default.
* Version: Selects the version of the environment. For TensorFlow
  environment, for example, you can select different versions such as 1.15, 2.3, etc.
* Resource Group: Specifies the resource group in which to create the compute
  session. If there are multiple resource groups, you can select the desired
  one, but if there is only one resource group, it cannot be changed.
* Session name (optional): Specifies the name of the compute session to be
  created. If specified, this name appears in Session Info, making it easy to
  distinguish it from other compute sessions. If not specified, a
  randomly-generated name is assigned. You can set the session name up to 4 to
  64 characters only with alphabetical characters or numbers and no spaces
  are allowed.
* Folder to mount: Specifies the data folders to be mounted in the compute
  session. When a compute session is deleted, all data is deleted
  altogether by default, but the data stored in the folder mounted here is not deleted.
* Resource allocation: This is a template that has predefined resources to be
  allocated to the compute session. You can save and use frequently used
  resource settings in advance. Resource templates can be managed in a dedicated
  admin hub.
* CPU: The number of CPU cores to allocate to the compute session. The maximum
  value depends on the resource policy applied to the user.
* RAM: The amount of memory (GB) to allocate to the compute session. The
  maximum value depends on the resource policy applied to the user.
* Shared Memory: The amount of shared memory (GB) to allocate to the
  compute session. It can be set up to 2 GB and cannot be greater than the
  amount specified in RAM.
* GPU: The unit of GPU to allocate to the compute session. The maximum value
  depends on the resource policy applied to the user.
* Sessions: The number of compute sessions to be created with the specified
  settings. You can specify this value when you need to create the same computational
  sessions at once.

If no folder is specified in "Folders to mount", a warning dialog may
appear indicating that no storage folder is mounted. 

.. image:: no_vfolder_notification_dialog.png
   :width: 350
   :align: center
   :alt: Notification dialog when no storage folder is mounted to the session

You may ignore the warning, but it is recommended to mount 
at least one storage folder because terminating a compute session by
default deletes all the data inside the session. If you specify a folder to mount
and save your data in that folder, you can keep the data even if the compute
session is terminated. Data preserved in the storage folder can also be reused
by re-mounting it when creating another compute session. For the information on how
to mount a folder and run a compute session, see
:ref:`Mounting Folders to a Compute Session <session-with-mounts>`.

Notice that a new compute session is created in the Running tab. 

.. image:: session_created.png

In the RUNNING tab, you can check the information on the currently running
sessions. FINISHED tab shows the list of terminated sessions and OTHERS tab shows the compute sessions with errors. 
For each session, you can check the information such as session environments, the amount of allocated
and used resources, session starting time, etc.

.. note::
   Superadmins can query all compute session information currently running (or
   terminated) in the cluster, and users can view only the sessions they have
   created.

.. note::
   Compute session list may not be displayed normally due to intermittent
   network connection problems, and etc. This can be solved by refreshing the
   browser page.

The resource statistics are displayed at the top of the screen. You can check the
amount of resources currently used and the total amount of resources
that can be allocated. The display bars are divided into upper and
lower parts. The upper part shows the resource allocation status in the current
scaling group and the lower part shows the allocation status of total
accessible resources.

* Upper: (Resources allocated by the user in the current scaling group) /
  (Total resources allocatable by the user in the current scaling group)

* Lower: (Resources allocated by the user) / (Resources allocated by the user +
  Total resources allocatable by the user in the current scaling group)

.. note::
   If the GPU resource is marked as FGPU, this means that the server is serving
   the GPU resources in a virtualized form. Backend.AI supports GPU
   virtualization technology that a single physical GPU can be divided and
   shared by multiple users for better utilization. Therefore, if you want to
   execute a task that does not require a large amount of GPU computation, you
   can create a compute session by allocating only a portion of a GPU. The
   amount of GPU resources that 1 FGPU actually allocates may vary from system
   to system depending on the administrator's setting. For example, if
   administrator has set to split one physical GPU into five pieces, 5 FGPU
   means 1 physical GPU, or 1 FGPU means 0.2 physical GPU. At this
   configuration, if you create a compute session by allocating 1 FGPU, you can
   utilize SM (streaming multiprocessor) and GPU memory corresponding to 0.2
   physical GPU for the session.
   

Using Jupyter Notebook
----------------------

Let's look at how to use and manage compute sessions that are already running.
If you look at the Control column of the session list, there are several icons.
When you click the first icon, the app launcher appears as shown in the figure
below, and several app services supported by the session appear.

.. image:: app_launch_dialog.png
   :width: 400
   :align: center

.. note::
   There are two check options under the app icons. Check each item and open the
   app to reflect the following features:

   * Open app to public: Open the app to the public. Basically, web services
     such as Terminal and Jupyter Notebook services here are not accessible by
     other users, even if the user knows the service URL, since they are
     considered unauthenticated. However, if you check this item anyone who
     knows the URL (and port number) of the service can access and use it. Of
     course, the user must have a network path to access the service.
   * Try preferred port: When the web service is opened, a specific port is
     assigned from the port pool created in advance by Backend.AI. Users can use
     the service only when they connect to the port along with the IP address or
     domain name. If you check this item and enter the port number, the entered
     port number will be tried. However, there is no guarantee that the desired
     port will always be assigned. The port may not exist at all in the port
     pool, or another service may already be using the port. In this case, the
     port number is randomly assigned.

  Depending on the system configuration, these options may not appear.

Let's click on Jupyter Notebook.

.. image:: jupyter_app.png

A new window pops up and you can see that Jupyter Notebook is running. This
notebook was created inside a running compute session and can be used easily
with the click of a button without any other settings. Also, there is no need
for a separate package installation process because the language environment and
library provided by the computation session can be used as it is. For detailed
instructions on how to use Jupyter Notebook, please refer to the official
documentation.

In the notebook's file explorer, the ``id_container file`` contains a private
SSH key. If necessary, you can download it and use it for SSH / SFTP access to
the container.

Click the NEW button on the top right and select the Notebook for Backend.AI,
then the ipynb window appears where you can enter your own code.

.. image:: backendai_notebook_menu.png
   :width: 400
   :align: center

In this window, you can enter and execute any code you want by using the
environment that session provides. The code is executed on one of the
Backend.AI nodes where the compute session is actually created, and there is no
need to configure a separate environment on the local machine.

.. image:: notebook_code_execution.png

When you close the window, you can notice that the ``Untitled.ipynb`` file is
created in the Notebook File Explorer. Note that the files created here are
deleted when you terminate the session. The way to preserve those files even
after the session is terminated is described in the Storage/Folders section.

.. image:: untitled_ipynb_created.png

Like this, after creating a compute session, you can use web apps such as
Jupyter Notebook, and in Jupyter Notebook, you can run Python code that checks
resource constraints right away without installing a separate packages.


Web terminal
------------

Return to the Session list page. This time, let's launch the terminal. Click the
terminal icon (the second button) to use the container's ttyd daemon. A terminal
will appear in a new window, and you can issue shell commands by accessing
inside the computational session as shown in the following figure. If you are
familiar with using commands, you can easily issue various Linux commands. You
can see that the Untitled.ipynb file automatically generated in Jupyter Notebook
is viewed through the ``ls`` command. This is proof that both apps are running
in the same container environment.

.. image:: session_terminal.png
   :width: 500
   :align: center

If you create a file here, you can immediately see it in the Jupyter Notebook
you opened earlier as well. Conversely, changes made to files in Jupyter
Notebook can also be checked right from the terminal. This is because they are
using the same files in the same compute session.

In addition to this, you can use web-based services such as TensorBoard, Jupyter
Lab, etc., depending on the type of service provided by the compute session.


Query compute session log
-------------------------

You can view the log of the compute session by clicking the last icon in the
Control column of the running compute session.

.. image:: session_log.png
   :width: 500
   :align: center


Delete a compute session
------------------------

To terminate a specific session, simply click on the red power icon and click
OKAY button in the dialog. Since the data in the folder inside the compute
session is deleted as soon as the compute session ends, it is recommended that
you move the data to the mounted folder or upload it to the folder from the
beginning if you want to keep it.

.. image:: session_destroy_dialog.png
   :width: 400
   :align: center


Advanced Web Terminal Usage
---------------------------

The web-based terminal we used above internally embeds a utility called
`tmux <https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki>`_. tmux is a terminal multiplexer that
supports to open multiple shell windows within a single shell, so as to allow
multiple programs to run in foreground simultaneously. If you want to take
advantage of more powerful tmux features, you can refer to the official tmux
documentation and other usage examples on the Internet.

Here we are introducing some simple but useful features.

Copy terminal contents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

tmux offers a number of useful features, but it's a bit confusing for first-time
users. In particular, tmux has its own clipboard buffer, so when copying the
contents of the terminal, you can suffer from the fact that it can be pasted
only within tmux by default. Furthermore, it is difficult to expose user
system's clipboard to tmux inside web browser, so when using tmux, the terminal
contents cannot be copied and pasted to other programs of user's computer. The
so-called ``Ctrl-C`` / ``Ctrl-V`` is not working.

If you need to copy and paste the terminal contents to your system's clipboard,
you can temporarily turn off tmux's mouse support. First, press ``Ctrl-B`` key
to enter tmux control mode. Then type ``:set -g mouse off`` and press ``Enter``
(note that you have to type the first colon as well). You can check what you are
typing in the status bar at the bottom of the screen. Then drag the desired text
from the terminal with the mouse and press the ``Ctrl-C`` or ``Cmd-C`` (in Mac)
to copy them to the clipboard of the user's computer.

With mouse support turned off, you cannot scroll through the mouse wheel to see
the contents of the previous page from the terminal. In this case, you can turn
on mouse support again. Press ``Ctrl-B``, and this time, type ``:set -g mouse
on``. Now you can scroll mouse wheel to see the contents of the previous page.

If you remember ``:set -g mouse off`` or ``:set -g mouse on`` after ``Ctrl-B``,
you can use the web terminal more conveniently.

.. note::
   ``Ctrl-B`` is tmux's default control mode key. If you set another control key
   by modifying ``.tmux.conf`` in user home directory, you should press the set
   key combination instead of ``Ctrl-B``.

Checking the terminal history using keyboard
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is also a way to copy the terminal contents and check the previous
contents of the terminal simultaneously. It is to check the previous contents
using the keyboard. Again, click ``Ctrl-B`` first, and then press the ``Page
Up`` and/or ``Page Down`` keys. You can see that you navigate through the
terminal's history with just keyboard. To exit search mode, just press the ``q``
key. With this method, you can check the contents of the terminal history even
when the mouse support is turned off to allow copy and paste.

Spawn multiple shells
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The main advantage of tmux is that you can launch and use multiple shells in one
terminal window. Since seeing is believing, let's press the ``Ctrl-B`` key and
then the ``c``. You can see that the contents of the existing window disappeared
and a new shell environment appeared. Then, did the previous window terminated?
It's not like that. Let's press ``Ctrl-B`` and then ``w``. You can now see the
list of shells currently open on tmux like following image. Here, the shell
starting with ``0:`` is the shell environment you first saw, and the shell
starting with ``1:`` is the one you just created. You can move between shells
using the up/down keys. Place the cursor on the shell ``0:`` and press the Enter
key to select it.

.. image:: tmux_multi_session_pane.png
   :alt: tmux's multiple session management

You can see the shell environment you saw first appears. In this way, you can
use multiple shell environments within a web terminal. To exit or terminate the
current shell, just enter ``exit`` command or press ``Ctrl-B x`` key and then
type ``y``.

In summary:

- ``Ctrl-B c``: create a new tmux shell
- ``Ctrl-B w``: query current tmux shells and move around among them
- ``exit`` or ``Ctrl-B x``: terminate the current shell

Combining the above commands allows you to perform various tasks simultaneously
on multiple shells.

Commit message:

added separate resource stat image

docs/sessions_all/sessions_all.rst, after:

================
Compute Sessions
================

The most visited pages in the Backend.AI GUI Console would be the Sessions and
Data & Storage pages. Here, you will learn how to query and
create container-based compute sessions and utilize various web applications on
the Sessions page.

Start a new session
-------------------

After logging in with a user account, click Sessions on the left menu to visit the Sessions page. 
Sessions page lets you start new sessions or use and manage existing running sessions. 

.. image:: sessions_page.png

Click the START button to start a new compute session. The following setup
dialog will appear. You can specify the language environment (Environments and
Version) and the amount of resources you want to allocate. Set the CPU and memory as shown in
the following figure and click the LAUNCH button.

.. image:: session_launch_dialog.png
   :width: 350
   :align: center

If you need more detailed settings, refer to the meaning of each items.

* Environments: Specify the default environment for compute sessions such as
  TensorFlow, PyTorch, C++, etc. When you select a TensorFlow environment,
  your compute session will automatically include the TensorFlow library.
  If you select another environment, the corresponding environment is installed
  by default.
* Version: Selects the version of the environment. For TensorFlow
  environment, for example, you can select different versions such as 1.15, 2.3, etc.
* Resource Group: Specifies the resource group in which to create the compute
  session. If there are multiple resource groups, you can select the desired
  one, but if there is only one resource group, it cannot be changed.
* Session name (optional): Specifies the name of the compute session to be
  created. If specified, this name appears in Session Info, making it easy to
  distinguish it from other compute sessions. If not specified, a
  randomly-generated name is assigned. You can set the session name up to 4 to
  64 characters only with alphabetical characters or numbers and no spaces
  are allowed.
* Folder to mount: Specifies the data folders to be mounted in the compute
  session. When a compute session is deleted, all data is deleted
  altogether by default, but the data stored in the folder mounted here is not deleted.
* Resource allocation: This is a template that has predefined resources to be
  allocated to the compute session. You can save and use frequently used
  resource settings in advance. Resource templates can be managed in a dedicated
  admin hub.
* CPU: The number of CPU cores to allocate to the compute session. The maximum
  value depends on the resource policy applied to the user.
* RAM: The amount of memory (GB) to allocate to the compute session. The
  maximum value depends on the resource policy applied to the user.
* Shared Memory: The amount of shared memory (GB) to allocate to the
  compute session. It can be set up to 2 GB and cannot be greater than the
  amount specified in RAM.
* GPU: The unit of GPU to allocate to the compute session. The maximum value
  depends on the resource policy applied to the user.
* Sessions: The number of compute sessions to be created with the specified
  settings. You can specify this value when you need to create the same computational
  sessions at once.

If no folder is specified in "Folders to mount", a warning dialog may
appear indicating that no storage folder is mounted. 

.. image:: no_vfolder_notification_dialog.png
   :width: 350
   :align: center
   :alt: Notification dialog when no storage folder is mounted to the session

You may ignore the warning, but it is recommended to mount 
at least one storage folder because terminating a compute session by
default deletes all the data inside the session. If you specify a folder to mount
and save your data in that folder, you can keep the data even if the compute
session is terminated. Data preserved in the storage folder can also be reused
by re-mounting it when creating another compute session. For the information on how
to mount a folder and run a compute session, see
:ref:`Mounting Folders to a Compute Session <session-with-mounts>`.

Now a new compute session is created in the RUNNING tab. 

.. image:: session_created.png

In the RUNNING tab, you can check the information on the currently running
sessions. FINISHED tab shows the list of terminated sessions and OTHERS tab shows the compute sessions with errors. 
For each session, you can check the information such as session environments, the amount of allocated
and used resources, session starting time, etc.

.. note::
   Superadmins can query all compute session information currently running (or
   terminated) in the cluster, and users can view only the sessions they have
   created.

.. note::
   Compute session list may not be displayed normally due to intermittent
   network connection problems, and etc. This can be solved by refreshing the
   browser page.

.. image:: resource_stat_and_session_list.png

The resource statistics are displayed at the top of the screen. You can check the
amount of resources currently used and the total amount of resources
that can be allocated. The display bars are divided into upper and
lower parts. The upper part shows the resource allocation status in the current
scaling group and the lower part shows the allocation status of total
accessible resources.

* Upper: (Resources allocated by the user in the current scaling group) /
  (Total resources allocatable by the user in the current scaling group)

* Lower: (Resources allocated by the user) / (Resources allocated by the user +
  Total resources allocatable by the user in the current scaling group)

.. note::
   If the GPU resource is marked as FGPU, this means that the server is serving
   the GPU resources in a virtualized form. Backend.AI supports GPU
   virtualization technology that a single physical GPU can be divided and
   shared by multiple users for better utilization. Therefore, if you want to
   execute a task that does not require a large amount of GPU computation, you
   can create a compute session by allocating only a portion of a GPU. The
   amount of GPU resources that 1 FGPU actually allocates may vary from system
   to system depending on the administrator's setting. For example, if
   administrator has set to split one physical GPU into five pieces, 5 FGPU
   means 1 physical GPU, or 1 FGPU means 0.2 physical GPU. At this
   configuration, if you create a compute session by allocating 1 FGPU, you can
   utilize SM (streaming multiprocessor) and GPU memory corresponding to 0.2
   physical GPU for the session.
   

Using Jupyter Notebook
----------------------

Let's look at how to use and manage compute sessions that are already running.
If you look at the Control column of the session list, there are several icons.
When you click the first icon, the app launcher appears as shown in the figure
below, and several app services supported by the session appear.

.. image:: app_launch_dialog.png
   :width: 400
   :align: center

.. note::
   There are two check options under the app icons. Check each item and open the
   app to reflect the following features:

   * Open app to public: Open the app to the public. Basically, web services
     such as Terminal and Jupyter Notebook services here are not accessible by
     other users, even if the user knows the service URL, since they are
     considered unauthenticated. However, if you check this item anyone who
     knows the URL (and port number) of the service can access and use it. Of
     course, the user must have a network path to access the service.
   * Try preferred port: When the web service is opened, a specific port is
     assigned from the port pool created in advance by Backend.AI. Users can use
     the service only when they connect to the port along with the IP address or
     domain name. If you check this item and enter the port number, the entered
     port number will be tried. However, there is no guarantee that the desired
     port will always be assigned. The port may not exist at all in the port
     pool, or another service may already be using the port. In this case, the
     port number is randomly assigned.

  Depending on the system configuration, these options may not appear.

Let's click on Jupyter Notebook.

.. image:: jupyter_app.png

A new window pops up and you can see that Jupyter Notebook is running. This
notebook was created inside a running compute session and can be used easily
with the click of a button without any other settings. Also, there is no need
for a separate package installation process because the language environment and
library provided by the computation session can be used as it is. For detailed
instructions on how to use Jupyter Notebook, please refer to the official
documentation.

In the notebook's file explorer, the ``id_container file`` contains a private
SSH key. If necessary, you can download it and use it for SSH / SFTP access to
the container.

Click the NEW button on the top right and select the Notebook for Backend.AI,
then the ipynb window appears where you can enter your own code.

.. image:: backendai_notebook_menu.png
   :width: 400
   :align: center

In this window, you can enter and execute any code you want by using the
environment that session provides. The code is executed on one of the
Backend.AI nodes where the compute session is actually created, and there is no
need to configure a separate environment on the local machine.

.. image:: notebook_code_execution.png

When you close the window, you can notice that the ``Untitled.ipynb`` file is
created in the Notebook File Explorer. Note that the files created here are
deleted when you terminate the session. The way to preserve those files even
after the session is terminated is described in the Storage/Folders section.

.. image:: untitled_ipynb_created.png

Like this, after creating a compute session, you can use web apps such as
Jupyter Notebook, and in Jupyter Notebook, you can run Python code that checks
resource constraints right away without installing a separate packages.


Web terminal
------------

Return to the Session list page. This time, let's launch the terminal. Click the
terminal icon (the second button) to use the container's ttyd daemon. A terminal
will appear in a new window, and you can issue shell commands by accessing
inside the computational session as shown in the following figure. If you are
familiar with using commands, you can easily issue various Linux commands. You
can see that the Untitled.ipynb file automatically generated in Jupyter Notebook
is viewed through the ``ls`` command. This is proof that both apps are running
in the same container environment.

.. image:: session_terminal.png
   :width: 500
   :align: center

If you create a file here, you can immediately see it in the Jupyter Notebook
you opened earlier as well. Conversely, changes made to files in Jupyter
Notebook can also be checked right from the terminal. This is because they are
using the same files in the same compute session.

In addition to this, you can use web-based services such as TensorBoard, Jupyter
Lab, etc., depending on the type of service provided by the compute session.


Query compute session log
-------------------------

You can view the log of the compute session by clicking the last icon in the
Control column of the running compute session.

.. image:: session_log.png
   :width: 500
   :align: center


Delete a compute session
------------------------

To terminate a specific session, simply click on the red power icon and click
OKAY button in the dialog. Since the data in the folder inside the compute
session is deleted as soon as the compute session ends, it is recommended that
you move the data to the mounted folder or upload it to the folder from the
beginning if you want to keep it.

.. image:: session_destroy_dialog.png
   :width: 400
   :align: center


Advanced Web Terminal Usage
---------------------------

The web-based terminal we used above internally embeds a utility called
`tmux <https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki>`_. tmux is a terminal multiplexer that
supports to open multiple shell windows within a single shell, so as to allow
multiple programs to run in foreground simultaneously. If you want to take
advantage of more powerful tmux features, you can refer to the official tmux
documentation and other usage examples on the Internet.

Here we are introducing some simple but useful features.

Copy terminal contents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

tmux offers a number of useful features, but it's a bit confusing for first-time
users. In particular, tmux has its own clipboard buffer, so when copying the
contents of the terminal, you can suffer from the fact that it can be pasted
only within tmux by default. Furthermore, it is difficult to expose user
system's clipboard to tmux inside web browser, so when using tmux, the terminal
contents cannot be copied and pasted to other programs of user's computer. The
so-called ``Ctrl-C`` / ``Ctrl-V`` is not working.

If you need to copy and paste the terminal contents to your system's clipboard,
you can temporarily turn off tmux's mouse support. First, press ``Ctrl-B`` key
to enter tmux control mode. Then type ``:set -g mouse off`` and press ``Enter``
(note that you have to type the first colon as well). You can check what you are
typing in the status bar at the bottom of the screen. Then drag the desired text
from the terminal with the mouse and press the ``Ctrl-C`` or ``Cmd-C`` (in Mac)
to copy them to the clipboard of the user's computer.

With mouse support turned off, you cannot scroll through the mouse wheel to see
the contents of the previous page from the terminal. In this case, you can turn
on mouse support again. Press ``Ctrl-B``, and this time, type ``:set -g mouse
on``. Now you can scroll mouse wheel to see the contents of the previous page.

If you remember ``:set -g mouse off`` or ``:set -g mouse on`` after ``Ctrl-B``,
you can use the web terminal more conveniently.

.. note::
   ``Ctrl-B`` is tmux's default control mode key. If you set another control key
   by modifying ``.tmux.conf`` in user home directory, you should press the set
   key combination instead of ``Ctrl-B``.

Checking the terminal history using keyboard
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is also a way to copy the terminal contents and check the previous
contents of the terminal simultaneously. It is to check the previous contents
using the keyboard. Again, click ``Ctrl-B`` first, and then press the ``Page
Up`` and/or ``Page Down`` keys. You can see that you navigate through the
terminal's history with just keyboard. To exit search mode, just press the ``q``
key. With this method, you can check the contents of the terminal history even
when the mouse support is turned off to allow copy and paste.

Spawn multiple shells
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The main advantage of tmux is that you can launch and use multiple shells in one
terminal window. Since seeing is believing, let's press the ``Ctrl-B`` key and
then the ``c``. You can see that the contents of the existing window disappeared
and a new shell environment appeared. Then, did the previous window terminated?
It's not like that. Let's press ``Ctrl-B`` and then ``w``. You can now see the
list of shells currently open on tmux like following image. Here, the shell
starting with ``0:`` is the shell environment you first saw, and the shell
starting with ``1:`` is the one you just created. You can move between shells
using the up/down keys. Place the cursor on the shell ``0:`` and press the Enter
key to select it.

.. image:: tmux_multi_session_pane.png
   :alt: tmux's multiple session management

You can see the shell environment you saw first appears. In this way, you can
use multiple shell environments within a web terminal. To exit or terminate the
current shell, just enter ``exit`` command or press ``Ctrl-B x`` key and then
type ``y``.

In summary:

- ``Ctrl-B c``: create a new tmux shell
- ``Ctrl-B w``: query current tmux shells and move around among them
- ``exit`` or ``Ctrl-B x``: terminate the current shell

Combining the above commands allows you to perform various tasks simultaneously
on multiple shells.
