docs/my_environments/my_environments.rst, before:

.. _my-environments:

===============
My Environments
===============

From 24.03, a new \"My Environments\" page for users has been introduced.
This page displays contents such as a list of images created by the user's
:ref:`session commits<session-commit>`.

On the Images tab of the My Environments page, users can manage customized
images used in creating compute sessions. This tab displays metadata information
of images converted from computational sessions to images. User can view details
such as the registry, architecture, namespace, language, version, base,
constraint, digest, and other information for each image.

.. _delete-customized-image:

To delete an image, click on the red trash button in the control column.
After deletion, you will not be able to create a new session using that image.

.. image:: my_environments.png
  :alt: My Environments

If you want to hide or show the certain columns, click the gear icon at the
bottom right of the table. Then you can see below dialog to select the columns
you want to see.

.. image:: table_setting.png
  :align: center
  :width: 500
  :alt: Table Setting

Commit message:

docs: update model-serving page including runtime variant, environment variables with updated screenshots (#70)
### TL;DR

Updated documentation with new features and UI changes for Backend.AI Web UI.

### What changed?

- Added information about managing apps per image in the Admin Menu
- Updated instructions for creating model services, including new runtime variants
- Added informations about model store and how to upload model card (for project admin only)
- Added copying my environment and applying to session creation
- Added how to export resource policies to csv file format
- Added details about viewing logs per container in cluster sessions
- Updated user settings documentation with new preferences and keypair information
- Refreshed various screenshots throughout the documentation

### Why make this change?

These updates reflect new features and UI improvements in the Backend.AI Web UI, ensuring that users have accurate and up-to-date documentation. The changes aim to improve user experience by providing clear instructions on how to use new functionalities and navigate the updated interface.

docs/my_environments/my_environments.rst, after:

.. _my-environments:

===============
My Environments
===============

From 24.03, a new \"My Environments\" page for users has been introduced.
This page displays contents such as a list of images created by the user's
:ref:`session commits<session-commit>`.

On the Images tab of the My Environments page, users can manage customized
images used in creating compute sessions. This tab displays metadata information
of images converted from computational sessions to images. User can view details
such as the registry, architecture, namespace, language, version, base,
constraint, digest, and other information for each image.

.. _delete-customized-image:

To delete an image, click on the red trash button in the control column.
After deletion, you will not be able to create a new session using that image.

.. image:: my_environments.png
  :alt: My Environments

You can also copy the my environment image and create session with manual image. 
Click 'Copy' button in the control column, and go to sessions page and create a session. 
Fill the input of manual image by pasting the image that you copied.

.. image:: copy_image_name_manual.png
   :alt: Copy image name manual

If you want to hide or show the certain columns, click the gear icon at the
bottom right of the table. Then you can see below dialog to select the columns
you want to see.

.. image:: table_setting.png
  :align: center
  :width: 500
  :alt: Table Setting
