docs/index.rst, before:

.. Backend.AI Console User Guide master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Feb  5 01:58:48 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Backend.AI GUI Console User Guide
=================================

User's guide for the Backend.AI GUI Console.

Backend.AI GUI Console is a web or app that provides easy-to-use GUI interface
to work with the Backend.AI server.

The latest versions of this document can be found from sites below:

- https://console.docs.backend.ai/en/stable (English)
- https://console.docs.backend.ai/ko/stable (Korean)

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Table of Contents

   disclaimer
   overview/overview
   installation/installation
   login/login
   summary/summary
   session_list/session_list
   session_use/session_use
   vfolder/vfolder
   mount_vfolder/mount_vfolder
   sftp_to_container/sftp_to_container
   admin_user_keypair_management/admin_user_keypair_management
   trouble_shooting/trouble_shooting
   license_agreement/license_agreement
   references/references

Commit message:

docs: on cpu and memory allocation for compute session

docs/index.rst, after:

.. Backend.AI Console User Guide master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Feb  5 01:58:48 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Backend.AI GUI Console Essential Guide
======================================

Backend.AI GUI Console is a web or app that provides easy-to-use GUI interface
to work with the Backend.AI server.

This document is an essential guide for Backend.AI GUI Console.
The latest versions of full user's guide can be found from sites below:

- https://console.docs.backend.ai/en/latest (English)
- https://console.docs.backend.ai/ko/latest (Korean)

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Table of Contents

   disclaimer
   overview/overview
   installation/installation
   login/login
   allocate_cpu_mem/allocate_cpu_mem


   vfolder/vfolder
   mount_vfolder/mount_vfolder
   sftp_to_container/sftp_to_container
   admin_user_keypair_management/admin_user_keypair_management
   trouble_shooting/trouble_shooting
   license_agreement/license_agreement
   references/references
