docs/installation/installation.rst, before:

============
Installation
============

The Web-UI can be used in two forms. It can be used as a web service by
connecting to a separate web address prepared by the admins, or as an
app provided as a stand-alone executable file that does not require separate
installation.

With the web-based Web-UI, users do not need to install a
platform-dependent desktop applications and just need the latest versions of
browsers such as Chrome.

* Recommended browser: the latest version of Chrome (at least version > 80)
* Requirement: any machine that runs Web Browser (2 cores, 4 GiB memory)

.. note::
   We do not support MicroSoft Internet Explorer since it
   is deprecated and does not follow web standard and support up-to-date brower
   features.

The stand-alone Web-UI app can be downloaded from following address:
https://github.com/lablup/backend.ai-webui/releases

.. note::
   In the case of an app, depending on the security setting of the
   desktop OS, it may be recognized as an unsigned executable file
   and a permission check may be required.

Commit message:

docs: Update installation.rst (#80)
- Changed name of Microsoft. (MicroSoft -> Microsoft)
- Re-wrote the entire page to make it clear.
- Changed the name of WebUI to match with the interface. (Web-UI to WebUI)

docs/installation/installation.rst, after:

============
Installation
============

Backend.AI WebUI can be used in two different forms. 
It can be used as a web service by connecting to a seperate web address provided by the admins, 
or as an form of app provided as a stand-alone executable file which does not require seperate installation.

With web-based form of WebUI, users just need the latest versions of web browsers, no need to install platform-dependent desktop applications.

* Recommended browser: Latest version of Chrome (at least > 80)
* Requirement: Any machine that runs web browser (2 cores, 4 GiB memory)

.. note::
   We do not support Microsoft Internet Explorer since it
   is deprecated and does not follow web standard, and does not support up-to-date browser features.

The stand-alone WebUI app can be downloaded from following link:
https://github.com/lablup/backend.ai-webui/releases

.. note::
   Depending on the security settings of the Operating System, our installer may be recognized as an unsigned executable file. Permission check may be required.
